my name's Mike Harvey I'm driving sort
of based in the southwest of England I
became a driving instructor because I
really enjoy teaching practical skills
and I really want and enjoy seeing
people develop a practical skill this
wasn't my first career I've always been
in training so previous background
involves Maori training the training
looked quite intimidating was really
hard work to do but yeah it was quite
exciting at the same time versus it's
quite a big adrenaline rush but it's
something I really had a passion in so I
thought that'd definitely succeed so the
process started with some initial
meetings with my trainer where we talked
through the theory side of things he
helped me a fair bit on that the driver
training was quite interesting because I
really did have to revisit some of the
bits that I thought I was good at as I
wasn't too good at the a brand
straightaway was a massive appeal to me
being a large corporate industry really
I trusted straightaway the franchise
side of things is something that I was
quite keen on doing because it gave me
the flexibility to be able to run my own
business being your own boss
having no boss fantastic it really is
great sometimes lonely though so that's
where the support structure of the a has
come in to plagues I haven't got a line
imagine necessarily but actually I have
got a local coach a local mentor the
feeling I had when I first have a lesson
partly because it was so quickly after I
got home with my brand-new a a car was
just amazing nervous and daunting going
to meet a complete stranger and take
them out for the first time but then
seeing the end results that and seeing
that person driving around now and
seeing how happy she is and how that's
changed her life the biggest asset is
the car for sure so you know having that
decent car as one of your biggest tools
is great but also that there is a
marketing department that are doing a
lot of work for us in effect supplying
us pupils the elements of marketing that
some of some of it that I actually just
fell upon saying
like failing my cart with fuel every day
and spending a little bit of time extra
in a petrol station just to catch a
conversation with somebody or instead of
having my lunch in the corner of a car
park out-of-the-way somewhere having my
lunch right on the entrance to a nice
supermarket I really like business side
of winding because it is all for myself
which is fantastic I did find myself in
the early stages running out of time to
do the divergent the flank of the pupils
and just happen to deliver those lessons
so it did take me a while to understand
that the business as a whole is as
important as delivering that lesson
diary management skills is a massive
part of what you need to make sure you
can sort as it has an instructor once I
park the car on the drive at night
there's just so much that I want today
to make sure the the learning for my
peoples is most effective and that just
needs to take as long as it needs to
take if I choose to work a 60-hour week
I can do that if I wanted to if I choose
to work at 20 a week I can choose to do
that but that reflects in the way it
comes back to me as well I think the a
brand is a quality brand you definitely
want to be represent that brand as
professionally as they represented
themselves to me it certainly makes me
feel proud when people come up to me and
ask me questions because they seem as a
reputable organization the impact it had
of my family life is amazing my wife
certainly feels benefited me enjoying my
job the AAA brands obviously gives me a
certain amount of clients coming through
the door which would pay an ejection fee
for people can either book via the
website or they can put through the call
center I think to be a good driving
instructor you definitely could have
really really good people skills you're
going to sit really really close to
somebody teaching them a skill which
they may or may not find really really
easy but you've got to be able to
communicate with them effectively time
management is critical
I think my pupils have got their own
lives as well so if I'm late that's
going to affect them hugely we've got
the ability to be able to communicate if
we are going to be late with our peoples
fly the Bluetooth hands-free device in
the car which is great from my point of
view I think being my own boss is
probably the most fantastic job I've
ever had
I love the admin because I can make the
decisions to work the hours that I want
and ultimately and the amount of money
that I want based on the effort I put in
I would say it's the best deal in the
world I've had so far